week-2-blog (#5)
prady0t/My-Blog: content/posts/GSoC-week-2.md

---

title: "GSoC week 2 and 3"

date: 2024-06-29

  

---

![GSoC Banner](/GSoC_Banner.png)
<img src = "/GSoC_Banner.png">

This blog will be about the work I did and interesting stuff I found in these two weeks as a GSoC student.

### Work so far and for the coming weeks.

> In these two weeks we heavily planned and implemented lot of Infrastructural changes. These changes may not effect general users of PyBaMM, but 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these two weeks we heavily planned and implemented lot of infrastructural changes. These changes may not effect general users of PyBaMM, but 
```

> developers will surely benefit a lot from them. I also had a taste of how interrelated PR's can be an issue (although not so much in my case), I'll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developers will surely benefit a lot from them. I also had a taste of how interrelated PRs can be an issue (although not so much in my case), I'll
```

explain more about it later.

> Let's break down the work :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's break down the work:
```

> - Removing `run-tests.py` file : Most python projects uses a `run-tests.py`, which is used to handle command line inputs while running tests. PyBaMM already had 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removing `run-tests.py` file: Most Python projects use a `run-tests.py`, which is used to handle command-line inputs while running tests. PyBaMM already had 
```

Also, not really – not every Python project uses such files. I would say that most projects have used `tox` environments, but it would be good to get some data on this.

> `noxfile.py`. This file is used to handle `nox` sessions, nox is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple python environments, similar to tox. So

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`noxfile.py`. This file is used to handle `nox` sessions.`nox` is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple Python environments, similar to `tox`. So
```

> we already had multiple nox sessions for different testing conditions. `noxfile` in pybamm project pointed to `run-tests.py` file and hence the work was to  completely remove the legacy code in `run-test.py` file and use nox for everything. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we already had multiple `nox` sessions for different testing conditions. `noxfile.py` in PyBaMM pointed to `run-tests.py` file and hence the work is to completely remove the legacy code in `run-tests.py` file and use `nox` for everything. 
```

  

  To do this, we had to put markers for every tests. Pytest has a feature that enables users to mark tests with specific names and that particular tests can be 
  handled by `conftest.py` file. For example let's say I want to have tests marked with label `foo`, and to run them only when specified so. To do this we can mark 
  the test function by adding decorator `@pytest.mark.foo` and run them with `pytest --foo`. These inputs are handled by `conftest.py` file. These markers can also be defined implicitly inside `conftest.py` file. That is an even better approach, since now we don't have to add decorators to every test function and if someone 

>   forgets to specify any marker for a test, we can still get away with it since `conftest.py` adds markets while collecting tests. You can read more about pytest markers from the official [docs](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/example/markers.html#:~:text=with%20parametrize.-,Custom%20marker%20and%20command%20line%20option%20to%20control%20test%20runs,-%C2%B6). This is still a work in progress at time of writing this blog, you can have a [look](https://github.com/pybamm-team/PyBaMM/pull/4180) to know more about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  forgets to specify any marker for a test, we can still get away with it since `conftest.py` adds markers while collecting tests. You can read more about pytest markers from the official [docs](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/example/markers.html#:~:text=with%20parametrize.-,Custom%20marker%20and%20command%20line%20option%20to%20control%20test%20runs,-%C2%B6). This is still a work in progress at time of writing this blog, you can have a [look](https://github.com/pybamm-team/PyBaMM/pull/4180) to know more about it.
```

- Finally started migrating tests to `pytest` : I tried migrating `test_util.py` from unittest to pytest. I used a tool called [pytestify](https://github.com/dannysepler/pytestify) that was useful for syntactical conversion but obviously lot of stuff also had to be done manually. You can have a look at [this](https://github.com/pybamm-team/PyBaMM/pull/4214) PR.

> This is mostly the work I did in these weeks apart from reading and learning more about pytest advance features such as `fixtures`. I also came across a term called `monkeypatch` and `metaprogramming` which I will learn more about in the coming weeks. (Just wanted to use these words )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is mostly the work I did in these weeks apart from reading and learning more about `pytest`'s advanced features such as `fixtures`. I also came across a term called `monkeypatch` and `metaprogramming` which I will learn more about in the coming weeks. (Just wanted to use these words )
```

> Work in the coming weeks work will be more focused on (apart from the above mentioned pending PR's) converting `unittest` to `pytest` and how we are trying to automate and streamline this whole process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work in the coming weeks will be more focused on (apart from the mentioned pending PRs above) converting tests from `unittest` to `pytest` and on how we are trying to automate and streamline this whole process.
```
